---
id: release-0.2.0
title: Release v0.2.0
author: Richard 'CWolf' Griffiths
author_title: Developer
author_url: https://github.com/cwolfs
author_image_url: https://avatars0.githubusercontent.com/u/7622361
tags: [changelog, release, v0.2.0]
---

This is the full release version of v0.2.0. Like the pre-release it fully supports v1.3 and Flashpoints.

## Major Features

- Extended Lances - Increase the size of a faction's lances allowing for clan stars (5 mechs) and reinforced lances / comstar demi-lances (6 mechs). Works for vanilla spawns and Mission Control spawns.
- Additional Lances Faction Rep - Allow faction reputation range to select which lance to use
- Additional Lances Elite Lances - Allow elite lances to be selected if allied or enemy with a faction
- Flashpoint options - Allow for disabling Mission Control entirely, or just disabling only Additional Lances for FPs
- Additional Lances Skull Lance Difficulty - Added a full initial set of lances to fit different difficulty levels
- Ally Lance Combat Dialogue - Added more dialogue than the sample amount in v0.2.0a
- Additional Lances Tonnage Restrictions - Ability to disable Additional Lances on various tonnage rules
- BT v1.3 / FP Support
- Ally Lance Combat Dialogue - Unique dialogue per contract type and MC contract type variations if you have an ally lance dropping with you.
- Additional Lances Skull Lance Difficulty - Additional Lances now take into account skull difficulty when selecting lances to drop into a contract.
- Additional Lances in Battle are Primary Objectives - This makes a lot of sense for a Battle as the contract sometimes would end seemingly at random when the original targets were destroyed.
- Hot Drop Safety Features - When dropping into close proximity of enemies hot drop safety features will take effect. In the `settings.json` you can modify these. It supports auto-guard, auto-evasion and an option to include the enemies in this protection mode too.

## Minor Features

- Added damaged lances to the Additional Lances selection
- Added more pilot names for combat dialogue
- Added more pilot portraits for combat dialogue
- Added option to turn ally drop combat dialogue off

## Changes

- Changed the Additional Lance keys from all uppercase to upper snake case.
- Tweaked the path finder checks for spawning to make it slightly more lenient on sloped spawns

## Bugs Fixed

- Skirmish would crash if ally combat dialogue referenced 'Commander' string replacement as no Commander exists like in the Sim Game
- Contract Loading Freezes - A few contract loading freezes were fixed
- Contract Loading Loops - A few contract loading loop issues were fixed
- Contract Loading Times Improved - Contract loading times are drastically improved
- Random Spawns Fallback Fixes - Fallbacks weren't always activated correctly and when they were used sometimes the lance orientation was incorrect.
