---
id: release-0.4.3
title: Release v0.4.3
author: Richard 'CWolf' Griffiths
author_title: Developer
author_url: https://github.com/cwolfs
author_image_url: https://avatars0.githubusercontent.com/u/7622361
tags: [changelog, release, v0.4.3]
---

This release is part 2 of a big drive to reduce bugs in Mission Control. It fixes some long standing bugs and annoyances players have.

This turned out to be a much bigger release than I had intended and brings in 27 bug fixes, gameplay balances and minor features.

Tracked by [Milestone - v0.4.3](https://github.com/CWolfs/MissionControl/milestone/12?closed=1)

## Upgrade Instructions

- If you're using MC without a modpack and none of your own changes, just delete the MC folder and move the new one into your mods folder
- If you're using MC without a modpack but you've made some of your own changes to the configs:
  - Back up your old MC folder
  - Move your old MC folder out of your mod folder
  - Move the new MC folder into your mod folder
  - Manually make the changes back
  - If you prefer the old balance of lances, copy your entire `config/AdditionalLances` folder back to the new MC mod folder
- If you're using MC as part of a modpack, let the modpack authors update MC for you

## Minor Features

- Additional Lances: Added an option (`MatchAllyLanceCountToEnemy`) to 'match' ally lance count to the rolled enemy lance count. This is off by default but can be turned on in the `settings.json`.
- Additional Lances: Added an option (`IsPrimaryObjectiveIn`) in the `settings.json` to specify if the enemy AL lance(s) should be a primary objective or not.
- Additional Lances: Added better friendly lance portraits (Thanks @17783 / Spectre)
- UI: Added an update notification. When a new version of MC is released the Main Menu will show a notification. This can be disabled in the `settings.json`.
- AI: Follow Player - Exposed `TargetZoneRadius` setting in the `settings.json`. This specifies the target zone the following mech will try to enter before not following anymore. If this zone is left, they will try to follow again.

## Changes

- Load Times: Decreased on average between `30%` - `50%`
- Additional Lances: Lower tonnage lances can now spawn for higher difficulty contracts (since `v0.4.2` only the same class of lance [e.g. heavy, assault] would spawn for the difficulty level).
- Additional Lances: Reduced max lances to `1`. MC is just too brutal at times. This can be edited back under the configs `MissionControl/config/AdditionalLances/` if you want it harder again.
- Additional Lances: Substantially increased bonus payout from `20%` to `150%`. This is to try and offset the huge Company cost to fighting extra lances like the repairs, new mechs and pilot recruitment costs.
- Extended Boundaries: Increase specific boundary size for contract type & map combinations
  - `Capture Base` with `mapGeneral_frigidSteppes_iTnd`
  - `Capture Base` with `mapGeneral_icyOutpost_iGlc`
  - `Simple Battle` with `mapGeneral_highPeak_iGlc`
  - `Fire Mission` (all of them)
- Extended Boundaries: Increase default boundary increase from `20%` to `30%`
- Rescue: Added a minimum distance to objective check for the player lance spawn
- Hot Drop Protection: Changed evasion pips from `4` to `6` (effectively a change from `40%` to `60%` evasion) if the starting drop is within enemy detection range
- AI: Follow AI - Reduced 'should sprint' range from `200` to `120` units. This means the following unit should keep up better with the player mechs

## Bugs Fixed

- Random Spawns: Fixed issue where mechs wouldn't be able to move after spawning (stuck in one place from spawn)
- Random Spawns: Fixed issue where mechs would spawn in rocks or buildings
- Random Spawns: Fixed a few issues that could cause long loads
- Random Spawns: Fixed the `Array out of Bounds` errors when testing for valid spawn points
- Random Spawns: Fixed issue where the map 'plot' (point of interest) could not be found to orientate spawns on for the map `mapGeneral_gridLock_uTech` (and possibly others who shared the same map set up)
- Random Spawns: Fixed issue where the pathfinder mechs would trigger any Region they entered causing an error
- Extended Boundaries: Setting the sub-override `IncreaseBoundarySizeByPercentage` was not read. This is a similar issue as `v0.4.2` but for the contract type & map `Overrides` section instead.
- Extended Boundaries: Customised size position can be wrong causing key points outside of boundary (same bug as in `v0.4.2`). Should be properly fixed now.
- Localisation: Fixed a possible issue with locales that don't use period / fullstop for their decimal place. An error would occur when loading a map with an Additional Lance reward
- Additional Lances: Fixed issue where if the player restarted a contract 3 or more times then no more AL lances would spawn (friendly or enemy)
- Additional Lances: Fixed issue where Heavy Metal campaign contracts would allow Mission Control to run (and Bigger Drops). There's a setting `(DisableIfFlashpointContract)` in the `settings.json` to allow for MC to run in flashpoints but it's off by default.
