---
id: release-1.1.0
title: Release v1.1.0
author: Richard 'CWolf' Griffiths
author_title: Developer
author_url: https://github.com/cwolfs
author_image_url: https://avatars0.githubusercontent.com/u/7622361
tags: [changelog, release, v1.1.0]
---

This release focuses on better Flashpoint support, better configurability of MC and various features and bug fixes.

**This upgrade has some breaking configuration changes**. For upgrade instructions, see below the changelog.

Tracked by [Milestone - v1.1.0](https://github.com/CWolfs/MissionControl/milestone/18?closed=1)

## Major Features

- Flashpoints: Custom contract type support
  - This allows modders to make use of any custom contract type such as _Blackout_, _Solo Duel_ and _Duo Duel_ in flashpoints.
- Flashpoints & Normal Contracts: Per contract MC feature overrides
  - This allows modders to specify specific settings (e.g. 2 enemy and 1 ally Additional Lances) per specific contract
  - Supports both `MissionControl/config/Contracts` and `MissionControl/config/Flashpoints` folders for file management for big modpacks. By default only `Contracts` is used for both.
- User & Modpack Settings Overrides
  - Modpacks can create a `settings.modpack.json` and players can create a `settings.user.json` settings file to ease upgrading MC versions.
  - Load order is `settings.json` then `settings.modpack.json` then `settings.user.json`. With the last values overriding earlier.

## Minor Features

- Limited Save Support: Added limited save recovery for loading combat saves that would get stuck loading due to MC issues
  - **Loading a combat save is not supported. This is to help players on ironman mode who saved, loaded and now are stuck with a broken save. DO NOT DO IT.**
  - Fixed an issue where Additional Lances spawned in the map wouldn't load.
  - MC will load the contract but all MC features are disabled. Try to finish the contract, or withdraw.
- Flashpoints: Bigger Drop Support: Allow turning on additional player mechs for flashpoints without the other MC features

## Changes

- Follow AI: Changed default follow behaviour to `LanceOrder` instead of `HeaviestMech`
  - This means the AI will follow your player slot #1 mech. If that dies it follows slot #2, and so on.
- Escort Convoy: `Hunter` lance is now limited to spawn to be within 13 and 20 hexes of the extraction zone.
  - Previously it spawned anywhere beyond around 8 hexes so could spawn the other end of the map or a bit too close.
- Blackout: Phase 2 invading lance spawned too close to the buildings they were trying to destroy
  - Lance now spawns between 13 and 20 hexes away instead of between 8 and 16
- Settings: Renamed some settings to be clearer. See the upgrade instructions for more details.

## Bug Fixes

- Reward Screen Softlock: Fixed a situation where if the player restarted a mission, and the previous attempt had an enemy Additional Lance, when the contract was completed the reward screen would soft lock due to dirty contract data for objectives
- Contracts Screen Infinite Load: Fixed another bad vanilla method situation where, in rare situations, the contracts screen would get stuck on the loading screen due to limited selection of biomes/factions/contract types/contracts.
- Dynamic Withdraw: Feature was running in situations it shouldn't.

## Upgrade Instructions

- If you're using MC without a modpack and none of your own changes, just delete the MC folder and move the new one into your mods folder
- If you're using MC as part of a modpack, let the modpack authors update MC for you (using the below guide)
- If you're using MC without a modpack but you've made some of your own changes to the configs, or you're a modpack author:
  - Copy into your `Mods/MissionControl` folder
    - `MissionControl.dll`
    - `MissionControl.pdb`
    - `mod.json`
    - `config/Contracts` folder
    - Edit `settings.json` with the following:

#### Change `DisableIfFlashpointContract` property to `EnableFlashpointOverrides` and set to 'false'

Readability change and, if enabled, looks at the `EnableForFlashpoints` value in each feature section of the settings.

```json
"EnableFlashpointOverrides": false,
```

#### Add `EnableAdditionalPlayerMechsForFlashpoints` property

Allows for enabling the additional player mechs (e.g. Bigger Drop support) in Flashpoints without enabling all the other MC features.

```json
"EnableAdditionalPlayerMechsForFlashpoints": false,
```

#### Change `HotDrop` section to `HotDropProtection`

Readability change to prevent people thinking this section controls 'hot drops' when it only controls the protection when a hot drop occurs.

```json
 "HotDropProtection": {
```

#### Add `EnableForFlashpoints` for each major feature section

This is _only_ taken into account if `EnableFlashpointOverrides` is `true`.

Add to:

- RandomSpawns
- HotDropProtection
- AdditionalLances
- ExtendedLances
- ExtendedBoundaries
- DynamicWithdraw

```json
"EnableForFlashpoints": true,
```

#### Remove `DisableIfFlashpointContract` from `AdditionalLances` section

Delete it.

#### Reverse the positive/negative sign for the two below skull `DropWeightInfluence` settings

This is a readability change to fix the non-intuitive set up from previous versions.

```json
"EnemySpawnInfluencePerHalfSkullBelow": -0.1,
"AllySpawnInfluencePerHalfSkullBelow": 0.1
```

#### Change `Target` under `FollowPlayer` section to `LanceOrder`

```json
"AI": {
  "FollowPlayer": {
    "Pathfinding": "Alternative",
    "Target": "LanceOrder",
```
